.\" Manpage for hark.
.TH HARK 1 2026-06-16 "hark 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hark \- capture audio and produce transcripts on macOS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hark
.RI [ input ]
.RI [ output ]
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B hark
.BR devices | apps | info | models | config
.RI [ ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hark
is the verb \(em "listen and transcribe." It takes one input (live capture from
the microphone by default, system or per\-application audio, or an existing
file) and writes the outputs you name: an audio file, a transcript, or a stream
on standard output. Naming no output transcribes to standard output.
.PP
Live capture uses Core Audio process taps (macOS 14.4+). Transcription uses a
selectable engine; input is normalized to 16 kHz mono internally, so any
readable audio format is accepted.
.SH INPUT
Choose at most one. The default is the system default microphone.
.TP
.BI \-d ", " \-\-device " UID"
Live capture from a specific input device (see
.BR "hark devices" ).
.TP
.B \-\-system
Capture all system audio via a process tap.
.TP
.BI \-\-app " ID"
Capture only this application's audio, by bundle ID or PID. Repeatable.
.TP
.BI \-\-exclude\-app " ID"
Capture all system audio except the listed application(s). Repeatable.
.TP
.B \-\-mix
Additionally mix the microphone into a system/app capture. Sources are
clock\-synced with drift compensation.
.TP
.BI \-\-capture\-backend " auto|sckit|coreaudio"
System/app capture backend (default
.BR auto ).
.B coreaudio
uses a Core Audio process tap: needs the
.B System Audio Recording
permission and works headless (macOS 14.4+).
.B sckit
uses ScreenCaptureKit: needs the broader
.B Screen Recording
permission and a graphical login session (macOS 15+), and delivers audio
continuously so
.B \-\-mix
keeps recording the mic while system audio is idle.
.B auto
prefers
.B sckit
when it can run (macOS 15+, Screen Recording granted, a display present) and
otherwise falls back to
.BR coreaudio .
Also settable via
.BR $HARK_CAPTURE .
.TP
.BI \-i ", " \-\-input " PATH|\-"
Read an existing audio file, or
.B \-
for standard input, instead of live capture. Mutually exclusive with the live
flags above.
.SH OUTPUT
Name what to keep;
.B \-
means standard output. At most one output may be
.BR \- .
.TP
.BI \-a ", " \-\-audio " PATH|\-"
Write audio to a file
.RB ( .wav ", " .m4a ", " .flac ", " .mp3 ", " .opus )
or
.B \-
for a WAV stream on stdout.
.TP
.BI \-t ", " \-\-transcript " PATH|\-"
Write a transcript
.RB ( .txt ", " .srt ", " .json )
or
.B \-
for text on stdout.
.TP
.B \-\-raw
With
.BR "\-a \-" ,
stream headerless raw PCM to stdout instead of a WAV container.
.SH CAPTURE OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-r ", " \-\-rate " HZ"
Sample rate (live default 44100; transcode defaults to the source rate).
.TP
.BI \-b ", " \-\-bits " 16|24|32"
Bit depth (live default 16; transcode defaults to the source depth).
.TP
.BI \-c ", " \-\-channels " 1|2"
Channel count (defaults from the source, capped at 2).
.TP
.BI \-\-duration " SEC"
Stop live capture after SEC seconds (otherwise Ctrl\-C).
.TP
.BI \-\-split " duration=SEC | silence=SEC"
Split the audio file into sequentially numbered chunks. Requires
.BR "\-a FILE" .
.TP
.BI \-\-silence\-threshold " dBFS"
Peak level (negative) below which audio counts as silence for
.BR "\-\-split silence" .
Default \-50.
.SH TRANSCRIPTION OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-e ", " \-\-engine " ENGINE"
Recognition engine:
.B whisper
(local whisper.cpp, default),
.B apple
(native on\-device Speech.framework),
.B whisperkit
or
.B parakeet
(CoreML, Apple Silicon).
.B cloud
is post\-MVP.
.TP
.BI \-\-model " NAME|PATH"
Model for the chosen engine; the form varies:
.B whisper
a ggml path or short name
.RB ( base.en );
.B whisperkit
a variant
.RB ( large\-v3\-v20240930_626MB );
.B parakeet
a version
.RB ( v2 / v3 );
.B apple
ignores it. See
.BR "hark models list \-\-available" .
.TP
.BI \-\-language " CODE"
Spoken language code (e.g.
.BR de ),
or
.B auto
to detect (default). Support varies by engine: the
.B apple
engine maps the code to a locale (auto = current locale) and
.B parakeet
always auto\-detects.
.TP
.BR \-\-translate ", " \-\-no\-translate
Translate speech to English (whisper/whisperkit only).
.B \-\-no\-translate
overrides a configured default.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " wav|m4a|flac|mp3|opus"
Force the audio format, overriding the file extension.
.TP
.BI \-\-transcript\-format " txt|srt|json"
Force the transcript format, overriding the file extension.
.TP
.BI \-\-vad\-threshold " 0..1"
Live VAD speech\-detection sensitivity (default
.BR 0.5 ).
Lower catches quieter speech (fewer dropped phrases on low\-level captures);
higher is stricter. Apple Silicon only.
.TP
.BR \-\-vad ", " \-\-no\-vad
Use the on\-device VAD for live segmentation (default on, Apple Silicon);
.B \-\-no\-vad
falls back to the amplitude
.B \-\-silence\-threshold
method.
.TP
.BR \-\-gain ", " \-\-no\-gain
Peak\-normalize each segment before the engine to recognize quiet captures
(default on; the recording is unaffected).
.SH SPEAKER LABELING
Label transcript segments with who spoke (PRD \[char167]6.7). Two mechanisms
combine: deterministic
.I source attribution
(the microphone is
.BR You ,
the system audio
.BR Others )
and on\-device acoustic
.I diarization
(distinct voices become
.BR "Speaker 1" ,
.BR "Speaker 2" ,
\&...). Diarization needs Apple Silicon; source attribution works anywhere.
The label is rendered per format: txt
.BR "Speaker 1: ..." ,
srt
.BR "[Speaker 1] ..." ,
json a
.B speaker
field.
.TP
.BR \-\-speakers ", " \-\-diarize ", " \-\-no\-speakers
Enable speaker labels (off by default; or
.B $HARK_SPEAKERS
/ config). A meeting capture
.RB ( \-\-mix
with
.BR \-\-system / \-\-app )
is labeled
.B You
plus
.BR "Speaker 1..N" .
A transcript output is required.
.TP
.BI \-\-speaker\-mode " auto|source|acoustic"
.B auto
(default): source attribution plus diarization;
.B source
: only
.BR You / Others
(no model);
.B acoustic
: diarize a single stream.
.TP
.BI \-\-diarize\-engine " auto|streaming|offline"
.B auto
(default): streaming for live capture, offline for
.BR \-i
files.
.B streaming
: real\-time per\-segment clustering.
.B offline
: record, then diarize accurately at stop (transcript at end).
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-speakers " N"
Cap the number of distinct speakers.
.TP
.BI \-\-speaker\-threshold " 0..1"
Acoustic clustering sensitivity (default ~0.7). Lower splits speakers more
readily; higher merges them.
.TP
.BI \-\-speaker\-labels " You,Others"
Rename the two source\-attribution labels.
.PP
.B You
is a live\-only label: a single mixed
.B \-i
file cannot separate your voice, so everyone is
.BR "Speaker N" .
Acoustic models download from Hugging Face on first use
.RB ( "hark models download fluidaudio:diarizer" );
on Intel, diarized modes fall back to
.BR You / Others .
.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-C ", " \-\-directory " PATH"
Resolve relative artifact paths
.RB ( \-i ", " \-a ", " \-t ", "
and
.B \-\-split
outputs) against
.IR PATH ;
absolute paths and
.B \-
are unaffected. Defaults to the current directory (also
.BR $HARK_DIRECTORY ).
The directory must already exist.
.TP
.B \-\-interactive
Run a live capture in a minimal terminal UI: the transcript streams to the
terminal and single keys control it \(em
.B space
pauses/resumes (the paused interval is not recorded) and
.B Enter
finishes (Ctrl\-C also stops). Needs a TTY; not combined with
.B \-i
or stdout output.
.TP
.BI \-\-remote\-control " [host:]port"
Run as a control agent (no immediate capture): serve an HTTP/JSON API on
.RI [ host :] port
so scripts can start/pause/resume/stop/query one recording. A bare port or
empty host binds loopback (conventionally
.BR 8473 );
a non\-loopback bind requires
.BR $HARK_REMOTE_TOKEN .
Launch\-time capture flags become per\-session defaults. See
.I docs/remote-control.md
in the project.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Log diagnostic details to standard error.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show help.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
.B hark devices [\-\-list\-inputs|\-\-list\-outputs] [\-\-json]
Enumerate audio input and output devices.
.TP
.B hark apps [\-\-json]
List running applications whose audio can be captured.
.TP
.B hark info <file> [\-\-json]
Print duration, sample rate, channels, and metadata of an audio file.
.TP
.B hark models list [\-\-available] [\-\-json]
List installed models across engines, or the downloadable catalog with
.BR \-\-available .
The active default is marked with
.BR * .
.TP
.B hark models download <name> [\-\-default] [\-\-force]
Download a model. Names are engine\-tagged: a bare ggml name is a whisper model
.RB ( base.en );
CoreML engines use a prefix
.RB ( whisperkit:tiny ", " parakeet:v3 ).
.B \-\-default
makes it the default (also setting the engine for whisperkit/parakeet).
.TP
.B hark config show|set <key> <value>|unset <key>|path
View and edit persisted defaults. Keys include
.BR model ", " engine ", " language ", " translate ", " silence\-threshold ", " device ", " directory
and the capture/speaker settings; run
.B hark config show
for the full list.
.PP
Use
.B hark help <subcommand>
for a subcommand's full options.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Most defaults resolve flag, then environment, then config, then a built\-in
default. Every config key (see
.BR "hark config show" )
has a matching variable
.BR HARK_<KEY> ,
uppercased with
.B \-
mapped to
.BR _ ,
except
.B model
.RB ( HARK_WHISPER_MODEL )
and
.B capture\-backend
.RB ( HARK_CAPTURE ).
The common ones:
.TP
.B HARK_WHISPER_MODEL
Default ggml model (path or short name).
.TP
.B HARK_ENGINE
Default engine.
.TP
.B HARK_LANGUAGE
Default spoken language, or
.BR auto .
.TP
.B HARK_TRANSLATE
Default translate behavior
.RB ( true / false ).
.TP
.B HARK_SILENCE_THRESHOLD
Default silence threshold in dBFS (negative).
.TP
.B HARK_DEVICE
Default input device UID.
.TP
.B HARK_DIRECTORY
Default working directory for relative artifact paths.
.TP
.B HARK_CAPTURE
Default system/app capture backend
.RB ( auto / sckit / coreaudio ).
.TP
.B HARK_REMOTE_TOKEN
Bearer token required by
.B \-\-remote\-control
when binding to a non\-loopback interface (and enforced on every request when
set).
.TP
.B HARK_WHISPER_BIN ", " HARK_WHISPER_SERVER_BIN
Override the whisper.cpp CLI / server binary path.
.TP
.B HARK_WHISPER_SERVER
Set to
.B 0
to disable the resident whisper\-server backend.
.TP
.B HARK_VAD
Set to
.B 0
to disable the on\-device VAD used for live segmentation (falls back to the
amplitude
.B \-\-silence\-threshold
method).
.TP
.B HARK_GAIN
Set to
.B off
to disable per\-segment peak normalization of the transcription audio (the
recording is never affected).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.hark/config.json
Persisted defaults (JSON).
.TP
.I ~/.hark/models/ggml\-*.bin
Downloaded whisper ggml models.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Generic failure.
.TP
.B 64
Usage / invalid arguments.
.TP
.B 66
Input file or device not found.
.TP
.B 69
Feature or engine unavailable / not implemented.
.TP
.B 70
Internal error.
.TP
.B 74
I/O error.
.TP
.B 77
Permission denied (microphone, system audio, or speech recognition).
.PP
A non\-zero transcription engine exit code propagates through the pipeline.
.SH EXAMPLES
Live microphone to a transcript on stdout:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hark
.fi
.RE
.PP
Capture a meeting (system + mic), keeping audio and subtitles:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hark \-\-system \-\-mix \-a meeting.m4a \-t meeting.srt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Label a meeting by speaker (You + Speaker 1..N), live:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hark \-\-system \-\-mix \-\-speakers \-t meeting.srt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Diarize a recording, tuning sensitivity:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hark \-i meeting.wav \-\-speakers \-\-speaker\-threshold 0.55 \-t out.json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Transcribe a file, detecting the language:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hark \-i talk.mp3 \-\-language auto \-t talk.srt
.fi
.RE
.PP
Transcode between formats:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hark \-i in.wav \-a out.flac
.fi
.RE
.PP
Stream live WAV into another tool:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hark \-a \- \-\-duration 10 | ffmpeg \-i \- out.mp3
.fi
.RE
.PP
Interactive meeting capture (space pauses, Enter finishes):
.PP
.RS
.nf
hark \-\-interactive \-\-system \-\-mix \-a meeting.m4a
.fi
.RE
.PP
Run a loopback control agent for scripts to drive:
.PP
.RS
.nf
hark \-\-remote\-control 8473 \-C ~/Recordings
.fi
.RE
.SH PERMISSIONS
Microphone, system\-audio, and speech recognition are gated by macOS TCC. For
an unsigned build, prompts are attributed to the terminal that runs
.BR hark .
See
.I docs/permissions.md
in the project for setup details.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR whisper\-cli (1),
.BR ffmpeg (1),
.BR sox (1)
.SH BUGS
Report issues via the project repository.
